Requirements: Our project is to analyze time series data and forecast electricity consumption and price on the basis of that data. Hence, our major data collection requirement is to get data that is in the form of time series. Time series data is a series of data which is indexed with time order. It is collected over equally spaced time intervals. We needed the data of electricity consumption which is measured with a time lapse. This data can be in the form of txt, csv, excel, or json. It is a combination of continuous (numeric) and categorical (descriptive) features. One data set is in text format and we converted it to csv using python. The other data set is in csv format and we merged both to create our final dataset. 
Sources: We have collected data from two sources. Below are the 2 repositories with the respective datasets.
1.	Provided by Dua, D. and Graff, C. (2019),  dataset of a household’s electricity consumption has the historical data measured in kW(kilowatt) for a household from December 2006 to November 2010 with one-minute interval sampling. 
2.	Home energy consumption dataset by Ewood (2022) has information of a household’s energy consumption by appliances.
The dataset we got from the first source, UCI ML repository, is publicly available. This dataset contains the historical data of energy consumption in kW(kilowatt) by a household from December 2006 to November 2010 with one-minute interval sampling. Figure 1 shows originally the UCI individual household electric power consumption dataset was in txt format and columns were separated by semicolons, which we converted into a CSV file for merging it with our other datasets. For converting the txt dataset into CSV file we have used python. The UCI single household dataset has 9 columns. This data source has the license to make this dataset publicly available. Their citation policy is to acknowledge the source in the work we are doing based on this dataset.


